# Executive summary 
Information Systems are a large part of today's society. These Information Systems are composed of many different technological aspects, such as Hardware, Software, Data and Communication. Information Systems are also composed of non-technical aspects such as processes and people. Organizations and businesses use Information Systems to improve productivity and optimization. Mainframes were introduced in the 1950's. These early computers were very large but did what they were made to do. They were used to store large amounts of information, making it easier for organizations to perform calculations. In the 1960's, a new piece of software named Manufacturing Resources Planning or MRP was introduced to mainframes that allowed them to operate even more efficiently. These machines were now being used to keep counts on inventory, schedule production and even manage manufacturing processes. A company named IBM proved to be the strongest Mainframes manufacturers and continued to improve the machines and eventually introduced the Minicomputer. In 1975 the first Microcomputer was introduced as Altair 8800. The Microcomputer gained vast popularity and was improved upon quickly. Companies such as Apple and Microsoft began building these computers. IBM teamed up with Microsoft and eventually released the IBM PC. This PC became very popular and offered services such as word processing, spreadsheets and databases. In the 1980's Organizations and businesses started to connect to other computers using Client Server and Local Area Connection. Enterprise Resource Planning or ERP and this software allowed an organization to operate much of it's business with the computer such as human Resouces and accounting. Soon after in the 1980's companies began to connect to an early version of the Internet. In 1989 the World Wide Web was invented and changed the entire way the internet worked. Web pages could be created and interactive websites would follow. This Internet revolution moved very quickly and allowed online marketplace such as Ebay or Amazon. Online technologies and businesses put video stores and travel agencies out of business. Many pieces of software have been invented to improve how the computer can be used as a legendary Information System and just recently tablets and smartphones have become more popular than the PC that has dominated the industry for many years. Companies like Walmart have strived and become huge businesses because of the effective use of Information Systems.

## Information System Components
My car is a great example of an Information System. It contains Hardware, Software, Data, People and Process within it's System. The Hardware of the car would be the physical aspects such as the tires, engine, transmisson, steering wheel, headlights, hood, bumpers and so much more. The Software of the car would be the programmable aspects such as key fobs that communicate with the car from a distance to unlock it, the sensors inside the car that detect when there is a problem for example the check engine light. There is also a sensor in the car that let's off a noise when the door is open, or if your seatbelt is not on. These would be examples of the cars Software. The car stores all kind of Data too. The cars sensors are part of the computing Software of course, but they work with directly storing Data too. The car saves how many miles it has on it, shows air pressure in the tires, stores Data about broken pieces of the vehicle that determine when the check engine light comes on or off. It even shows you the speed of the vehicle which is of course another stored piece of information of the car. The people in this system would be, well, me. It helps me get around much faster and it's ultimate purpose is to serve me as the Person. Process within the car would be how it automatically makes decisions about the cars physical state, and decides what lights come on or off in the vehicle or what speed it displays on the speedometer. This is not done manually, therefore it is part of the Process within the cars Information System.

### Github
Client-Server Architecture
In Github: you are experiencing a Client-Server Architecture because you as a client are available to use Githubs services and resources while Github acts as the server, providing those services and resources to you and communicating you with other clients using that same server.

Cloud Computing: Github is considered Cloud Computing because Github acts as an onlice server, providing resources, storage and different features on their website or server for you to use. It is a Cloud enviroment, meaning istead of having to gather the software, finding space for that Software and different features they are provided to you online by Github themselves. That makes you the Client and Github the server. I use other Cloud Computing enviroments such as Cloud storage on my Xbox. This provides me a certain amount of storage for my video games online so I don't have to go out and buy another hardrive or flashdrive when I run out of space on the ones I already have. That extra storage is online. 
### Conclusion
