# Executive Summary 
Hardware is a very important component to computers today as we know it. Computers have become a part of many things such as cars, refrigerators and many other things that were once computer free. Computers today run on a 64 processor bit system, allowing 64 bits of data to be processed at a time. The first personal computers only allowed 8 bits of data to be processed at a time. Digital Devices are in all computers and these run through a system called Binary Code to function. Personal computers today have Hardware that includes a circuit board, storage, CPU or central processor unit, memory and input or output devices. The CPU is the brains of a computer, two main companies produce CPU's which today are generally small chips that mount into the circuit board. Those two companies are Intel and AMD. A CPU's power range is measured in Hertz. Computer technology gets improved every year. Moores Law defines that computing technology will double every two years for the same price point. Motherboards are the host pieces of a computer or circuit boards that the other pieces of software connect into, such as video cards, RAM or memory units. RAM is Random Access Memory and it loads information from a hard disk or hard drive. RAM cannot save data or information because after it's powered off memory is lost within it. RAM processes information much faster than any Hard Drive and with that said more RAM will make a computer run faster. Hard drives or Hard Disks is what the computer will use for longer term storage. Hard drives can store data even when not powered on, unlike RAM. SSD or Solid State Drives are Hard Drives that use flash memory and are much more efficient compared to Hard Disk Drives. External storage is another important piece of hardware people use to store data in a more portable way. Examples of these portable pieces of information holders would be floppy disks or USB flash drives. Network access abilities began to be standard in most computers due to the need to connect to other computers and share information more easily. Network cards were first installed in personal computers for access to networks, and after that network ports began to be standard. USB ports became common on most computers due to the fact that an input and output connection needed established with the computer to transfer data. Bluetooth connection also is an input and output connection for some computers, providing a wireless connection that allows the transfer of data. Input devices of a computer may include a touchscreen, the mouse or even the keyboard. Output devices on a computer may include the screen or monitor, speakers for listening to audio, or a printer. Different forms of computers have been invented to meet the needs of different expectations and requirements, such as portable computers, smart phones, tablets or even intergrated computers that make better use of things such as a refrigerator or car, as stated earlier. Hardware in a computer is just as important as it's software, providing tangible interchangible pieces that make up your computer.    

### Hardware 
**Hard Drives and Memory**

**Differences between Latency and Tranfer Rates** - The differences between Latency and Tranfer rates within a Hard Drive would be that Latency is normally measured in milliseconds and Transfer Rates would normally be measured in megabytes per second or MBps. Latency affects Hard Drives in two ways, Seek Time and Rotational Latency. Seek Time in a Hard Drive is the time it takes that Hard Drives read/write heads to locate physical  pieces of data. Rotational Latency is the time it takes for that Hard Drive to rotate under the read/write head for that data to be located. Transfer Rates within a Hard drive are the speeds at which data is tranferred to and from the Hard Drives actual disk platters. These Tranfer Rates also help in the process of recording data. The faster the Seek time, the Transfer Rate and the slower the Rotational latency is within a Hard Drive, the faster it will perform. In other words, It will save, send, recieve and read or write data more quickly and efficiently.


**SSD versus traditional Hard Drives** -
Solid State Hard Drives are different from Traditional Hard Drives because while Traditonal Drives do have disks to store their data, Solid State Drives do not. Solid State Drives also do not have heads, platters or magnetic surfaces so that they do not fail as often as Traditional Drives, due to physical errors. It is said that data is read at the speed of light with Solid State Drives, whereas Traditional Drives need to start spinning for the head to read the platter or disk within the drive. This takes more time and proves Solid State Drives to be more efficient. Unlike Traditional Drives, Solid State Drives do not cause delay in performance when it comes to fragmenting data.

**Why increased RAM makes a computer faster** - 
Increased RAM makes a computer run faster because it provides more storage for data to travel through, data needs to travel through the RAM first before it can go anywhere else, if there is not enough room on the RAM storage of a computer than that data instead of traveling directly through the RAM then needs to travel back to the Hard Drive where there sis more storage avaiolble. This creates extra work for your computer to do and ultimatley causes it be act more slowly overall. 

**Difference between 64 and 32 bit data paths** - 64 bit data paths can transfer up to 64 bits of data at a time, whereas 32 bit data paths can only transfer half of that at 32 bits of data at a time. It is clear that the 64 bit data paths are faster than the 32 bit data paths. Making it more efficient to utilize a 64 bit data path for the transfer of data.  

### ALU and the control unit 
The control unit and the ALU within a CPU interact because the Control Unit recieves instruction from RAM and further breaks that down for other parts within the CPU. Once the control unit recieves an instruction it tells the ALU what type of operation to perform. The ALU will then produce an output according to the operation.  

### Self checkout at a grocery store -
At a self checkout register in a grocery store the register uses CPU, Input and output. With input, the register is able to scan your items and take your form of payment. Maybe it also has a touchscreen for you to interact with to choose between different forms of payment. With Output the register diplays how much your total is or may tell you through an audio device. With CPU the register is able to process the payment total of your order, adding each item of your purchase into a total knowing what the price is for each item that comes through and is scanned. All together these pieces make up the majority of the Hardware of the register or self checkout. 
### Logic Gates and Circuits 
A truth table is what describes the results of a certain number of inputs and outputs to represent the voltage values of a digital logic circuit. These representations are displayed with true or false or 0's and 1's. A NAND gate and an AND gate can both have two or more inputs but only one output. They are the exact opposites of eachother. For example, the output for a NAND gate is true only whenever one or more of the inputs are false, but not when all of the inputs are false. however, the output for an AND gate is true only when all of it's inputs are true.
### IEEE - Ethically Aligned Design
The purpose of IEEE today is to provide a growing knowledge base and ultimately grow the industry for fields such as computer science, medical science, nanotechnology, robotics, bioengineering, electronic engineering, microtechnology and many more modern technologies that have and will benefit humans. The importance of ethics in device design is to protect people and their identities. Ethics in device design is essentially not designing devices that will benefit one group or nation, but will benefit all of humans instead. Ethics in device design is also essentially a statement that technology should be used to deliver services that can be trusted and be safe without manipulative or negative effects. Without these ethics, people could lose their data privacy, their human rights, or even their well being if technology was aimed to do so. These ethics are important to have to protect people from technology, and keep people in charge.

### Data Representation
**Difference between decimal, binary and hexadecimal numbers** - 
The difference between these three numbers is that the decimal numbers use a base-10 number system, the binary numbers use a base-2 number system and the hexadecimal numbers use a base-16 number system. 
### Hexadecimal Color Representation
ff016b is a representation of the hexadecimal system because it is using hexadecimal format to create a certain combination color that uses a wide variety of different individual colors and very specific amounts of each one of those colors which result in the unique color ff016b.

# Conclusion 
In todays world the use of Hardware is absolutely necessary for any computer or computer intergrated sysytem to function. From Hard drives to motherboards all the way to the very brains of a CPU, Hardware is what makes up these componenets. Without it, the rest of a computer would just be a fairytale or dream, it would never happen. It's interesting to know how different pieces of Hardware interact with one another. Many of the first computers could only process 8 bits of data at a time, now computers can process 64 bits of data, making computing a whole different world. It's amazing to know that our computers are doing all the math needed for their pieces of hardeware to interact properly with each other using a process called binary code. It is clear that computers do more math than is possible for atleast most humans to have time for. I believe groups like IEEE will continue to lead industries into the future with guidance and direction and humans will continue to benefit from the advanced technology that comes with it. As long as humans are ethical with technolgy and always have the proper leadership over it, it should bring humans into a brighter and more efficient tomorrow.
