# Executive Summary
Software is a vital piece to any computing system for it to operate successfully. Software tells the hardware in a computer what to do, and without it hardware would just be physical pieces without purpose. Software is always written in a specific computer language that the computer can read, such as PHP, C# or HTML. There are two major kinds of software, those being operating systems and application software. Application software is software that does something helpful for the computer user and is usually a program within the computer. Operating systems however create the user interface and manage system resources that are given by the computers hardware. Operating systems also allow a platform for applications to be written. Windows, OSX, Android and Linux are all examples of operating systems. Operating systems have come a long way over time and have been continually improved by large companies such as Apple or Windows. Linux as stated above is an operating system that is growing very strong and is creating more opportunities for computer users. Microsoft seems to have a strong role in the world of business computing, this is because in 1981 Microsoft teamed with IBM to release the PC. For a long time IBM was the strongest manufacturer of computer maniframes and most companies that had computers incorporated within their business would have an IBM brand machine. To play things safe, business consumers decided to stick by their trusted brand through the years and Microsoft kept growing with new software and new computers. Microsoft gained a lot of popularity and consumers would continue to stick with them as they became a trusted brand. This is why Microsoft seems to have an advantage in the competition of computers, exceeding other companies such as Apple, at least in the business world. Application software is just as important as operating system software, only it couldn't exist without operating software to create the interface for the user or manage system resources. Examples of application software would be computer applications such as microsoft word for typing a document, or a music software application such as Itunes. Spreadsheet software became a very useful program for users and businesses. Microsoft and Apple were both able to release their own version of spreadsheet software relatively early on in the lives of personal computers. A lot of software has been created with production in mind for businesses. Software applications such as spreadsheet, word processing, and even presentation software has been created soley for production purposes. Microsoft powerpoint has proven to be the most popular presentation software in a business setting. However, advancements to this software genre are of course still being made by Microsoft and other campanies. Other software applications such as utility software has made it more effective for computer users to perform utility tasks on their computers, such as disk defragmentation. Programming software has made it easier for programmers to write code and test it. There are many kinds of useful application software. Software licensing protects programmers and software developers from unethical use or distribution of their software. However, programmers and software developers can leave their work or programs open souced. This means that anyone can download it and edit it to make improvements, but this also removes the potential profitable gain a creator can earn from his or her hard work. Closed sourced software is generally licensed software that can cost money so the programmer or developer may get their investment of hard work and time back. It is said that closed source software develops more slowly because there are less people who can potentially edit and make improvemensts to it. The use of new application software has caused controversy between different departments of the same business. Some large businesses would need to be more connected with their business as a whole, so ERP software was released in 1990's. This software would centralize a lot of the businesses computer operations, saving a lot of time and frustration. Customer Relationship Management software has also helped businesses become more centralized by creating a more efficient way to develop important business relationships with their customers. Supply Chain Mangement software has also tremendously helped businesses with manageing their inventory and demand for new stock and creating better communication bewteen them and their distributors and manufacturers. The year 2000 caused a problem for many computer consumers as the popular software of the day only had two digits allocated for the date. This would not be compatible in a new century and this problem affected businesses all over the world, requiring them to have their computers recoded for correct dates. The ERP software that was released in the 1990's aimed to prevent this problem by having four digits for the dates, it was an obvious upgrade choice of software for a lot of prepared busniesses. Software has also been specifically made just for the growing phone industry, which is becoming more popular than personal computers. Android and IOS are the two most popular operating systems for cell phones today. A popular form of storage today is cloud computing. With cloud computing web developers and programmers are allowed to provide services and applications using storage over the internet. This reduces the need to install extra storage physically on computers. Cloud computing over the internet also allows private cloud usage for businesses that would like to be more reclusive with their data. Cloud computing is definilety a useful thing for just about anyone using the internet or a computer. It is true that software and other advancements such as cloud computing will continue to make businesses and their operations more effective and efficient, creating a more productive tomorrow.
# Software
**Application, Utility and Operating System Software** -

The roles of software can vary. Application software is software that assists the user in some way or is helpful towards a purpose you might want to fufill such as listening to music. Examples of application software would be music applications such as Itunes or programs like Microsoft Word. Utility software is designed to help the user complete performance tasks or fix problems on a computer. An example of utility software would be antivirus software. Operating system software displays the interface between the user and the computer, and also manages all the system resources provided by the hardware. An example of operating system software would be Windows or Linux. 

**ERP Software** -

Connecting a whole businesses or organizations data is what ERP software aims to do. ERP software provides a unified pool of data for it's users so they may refer to one place, instead of having an unorganized system. ERP Software centralizes data for a whole business or organization. An example of ERP Software would be Microsoft Dynamics.

**Purpose of Virtualization** -

The purpose of virtualization is to create multiple virtual machines, or virtual computers, on just one server. This saves a lot of money for an organization on excess hardware costs. The ability to run several virtual machines or computers on one server saves a lot of costs by eliminating the need to create more computer systems, physically build them, and ultimately pay for the parts required. They also are said to have better application performance, faster workloads and more efficient server capabilities. Virtual Machines can also be very easily migrated to new servers. Virtualization is different from cloud Computing because it is self sufficient from hardware, and is emulating that hardware as a piece of software. Cloud computing is storage of data, software or other resources that are on demand over the internet. 

# Virtualization

**Problems Solved by Virtualization** - 
Virtualization solves many problems, first of all it allows for the partition of servers or running of multiple different operating systems on one physical server. Virtulization also solved the problem of needing to buy extra servers to host other vital processes, this saves money on set up, maintenance, and the purchasing of additional servers.

**Hypervisors in Virtulization** - 
Hypervisors create the separation between virtual machines and the physical system resources they need. These hypervisors divide those system resources for any virtual machine you may use. 

# Python

**Psueudo-code Nature of Python** - 
Python is said to have a pseudo-code nature because reading in Python, seems to almost be reading in english which simplifies the entire process of writing in Python and also allows you to focus more on problem solutions rather than focusing more on the language or syntax itself.

**Interpreted language vs Compiled language** -
A program written in a compiled language is converted from the source code of a language into the native language of your computer, making it possible for your computer to understand that language. A program written in an interpreted language does not need to be directly converted into a native language for your computer to understand. Interpreted languages may be run directly from the source code of that language and converts that source code into bytecodes which is easily translatable for your computers native language to read.

# Career Exploration

### Certifications
Through CompTia I was able to find an interesting certification test that relates to my current major at Tri-C. The certification test is for a Cybersecurity Analyst and it's at a really fair price too. You can even choose to get a prep bundle option of the certification test to help you prepare for it. Also on ComTia it displays the length of the test and how many questions it has. A passing score would be  750 out of 900 points. 

### Certificates
Using the Tri-C Programs page I was able to find a post-degree certificate that relates to my current major. The post-degree certificate is for Cybersecurity and is 27 credit hours long. If this certificate was started during the summer it could be completed roughly about a year after it was started which is really interesting. I may consider getting this certificate after I am able to get my associates in Cybersecurity from Tri-C.

### Co-ops / Internships
To become Co-op ready you need to upload your resume at College Central so it can be reviewed and revised. You also need to paricipate in the Co-op orientation process at the Career Center at Tri-C. Then you need to work with an employer specialist to help you find the right Co-op in the right field. Finally you must sign the Cooperative Education Agreement. The benefits of doing all this and finding a Co-op related to your education is that you will be able to get hands on experience which you can use later in life to help you get a job after you're finished with your education. It looks good on your resume when you get extra experience in real life settings related to your education. It certainly improves the chances of getting a job with your degree once you have it.  

### Industry Associates / Student organizations
The Cybersecurity Club at Tri-C would be beneficial for me because my major is Cybersecurity. I could network with other students doing the same major as me and gain extra knowledge and experience with Cybersecurity through this club. The purpose of this club is to prepare it's members for something called CCDC or the Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition. This competition puts teams of students against eachother to compete at protecting a small company with 50 or so users and 7-10 servers. It seems like a great way to get real life experience with Cybersecurity outisde of the classroom.  

**Bureau of Labor Statistics** - 
With this resource I was able to research a career in IT that I have been interested in for awhile. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics Computer Support Specialists can earn an average of $53,470 a year. It shows that they also make an average of $25.70 an hour. Level of education required is atleast an associates degree. This resource also gives a description and job growth expectations for the Computer Support Specialist position. It even shows jobs that are similar or related to this specific job. 

### College Central 
This resource allows me to find different career opportunities around me and pick to which level of opportunity I am looking for. For example, I can search for part time and full time jobs or internships and even specify what kind. College Central also has different kinds of events that are available for you to browse through and allows you to create a portfolio. There are podcasts you can listen to and resumes you can upload for extra advice. College Central is great to help in the search for a new career or internship.

# Conclusion
The world of computing will go into a lot of interesting directions during the future. One this is certainly clear, and that is it will always continue to improve and grow stronger. From cloud computing to virtualization, having a computer now for a business or even just for yourself is becoming very important. Software will grow stronger and faster with the result being more diverse applications and operating systems. The world of information technology will continue to prosper, creating new and ever growing career opportunities. I think that computers will have much to do with the advancement of humanity during the future. Computers are a great asset and will always continue to be.   
